READERS SAY 
HereÕs what the Green Line Extension means for Boston.com readers
"IÕm excited to be a two-minute walk away from the Green Line, but IÕm worried about my rent going up."
MBTA General Manager Steve Poftak waited by the entrance of Union Square Station for the first run on the Green Line extension from Union Square around 4:50am on Monday. David L Ryan/Globe Staff 
By James Bartlett 
April 11, 2022 
* Facebook
* Twitter
* Email
* Email
The first part of the Green Line Extension has been up and running for nearly a month with a remodeled Lechmere station, a reopened Science Park/West End stop, and a brand new Union Square station.
The extension has brought long expected Green Line service to Somerville, and will continue to Medford later this year. So we asked Boston.com readers if they would use the the new line and what expansion of the T means to them.
How often will you use the GLX?
Every day.
4%
2
Most days.
10%
5
Some days.
23%
11
Occasionally.
42%
20
Never.
21%
10
Most readers said that they didnÕt see the the Green Line Extension as a part of their daily lives, with many stating that they would be infrequent riders, if they even rode at all. Despite anticipated frequency of use, many readers mentioned a concern of increases to rent and housing prices.
AdChoices
ADVERTISING
ADVERTISEMENT:
Ahead, we rounded up a sampling of how readers will use the new GLX and what it means to them below.
Reader responses are lightly edited for clarity.
Many are Ôexcited,Õ but access and getting Ôpriced outÕ is still a concern
Most readers said that they would occasionally use the Green Line Extension, but had concerns about who can access the new line going forward.
ÒThe Union Square area is already experiencing gentrification, however as the GLX is extended, efforts should be made to maintain/expand affordable house in the area. Overall, I see the GLX as a benefit due to the high volume of personal vehicles that currently exist. It would make car-free living more attainable,Ó Abigael from Inman Square said.
ÒIÕve lived in Somerville as a renter since 2008. IÕm about to be priced out of my neighborhood. IÕm pleased there are more viable public transit options, but only the wealthy are able to live walking-distance to the T,Ó said a Boston.com reader from Somerville.
ÒI am a resident of East Somerville, and cannot wait for the Medford extension to open! East Somerville is a great community, but somewhat disconnected from the city if you do not live close to Sullivan Square,Ó Morgan from East Somerville said.
ÒI live near Union Square and am quite excited to have the D and E lines in our city. The principal gain for me is that I will be able to travel directly to the Longwood Medical area and Kenmore where I have doctor appointments. The large increase in property prices in Somerville long predated the completion of the GLX. I think the new trolleys make the city more attractive and have some effect on raising prices, but itÕs not the dominant one,Ó said E. Fay from East Somerville.
ÔMuch faster commute!Õ
Of the readers who said theyÕd use the GLX most days said they would use the new access to the T as an essential part of their lifestyle.
ADVERTISEMENT:
ÒI am excited about it, yet disappointed because it should run at street level. I am also disappointed on how long it took for what should have been a simple project to be built. In our modern times we should be developing these not so revolutionary transit projects continuously,Ó said Cullen E. from Charlestown.
ÒIÕm excited to be a two-minute walk away from the Green Line, but IÕm worried about my rent going up,Ó said Ryan H. from East Somerville.
ÒI now have a one seat ride to work instead of 3 transfers. Much faster commute! I tested it out on the first day Union Square opened. I work in Back Bay and live in Somerville. I am worried about housing costs going up. You see a flurry of development and investment and that means steep prices coming to the neighborhoods,Ó Kevin from Spring Hill said.
ÔHorrible experienceÕ
Other readers who do not plan to use GLX thought the project was misguided and ineffective, if not long overdue.
ÒI took the green line from Fenway to Science Park the other day and already had a horrible experience,Ó Isabelle from Fenway said. ÒAll of the green line trains were leaving people off at North Station, and it was another 10 minute wait there to get the Union Square train. It took an hour to get from Fenway to the Science Park stop, which is absolutely crazy. We had timed tickets to a show and we missed it due to the Green Line, even though we left early so we would have enough time to get there. Such a poor and frustrating experience has already completely turned me off to trying to use any of the new stops, so IÕm planning on avoiding it as much as possible.Ó 
ADVERTISEMENT:
ÒI moved to the Union Square in 1990 when the project was first announced. [Union Square] is overrun with cars and desperately needs more public transit. I moved out of Union Square in 2015 after 25 years of broken promises, delays and endless neighborhood meetings, but still no train! Now, 32 years since it was proposed and then legally mandated, the modest train is finally running. A generation of people have already moved out. A terrible example of public transit building!Ó Jeff M. from Providence said.
Boston.com occasionally interacts with readers by conducting informal polls and surveys. These results should be read as an unscientific gauge of readersÕ opinion.
Around the Web

SKIP
Ads by 


The Most Useless Cars to Ever Be Produced
Brake For It


How to Get Macular Degeneration to Go Away - the Best Options
Macular Degen | Search Ads


20 "Three Stooges" Facts That They Hid from Fans
Past Factory


These Lazy Dog Breeds Are Perfect for Old People
HealthyGem

The content you see here is paid for by the advertiser or content provider whose link you click on, and is recommended to you by Revcontent. As the leading platform for native advertising and content recommendation, Revcontent uses interest based targeting to select content that we think will be of particular interest to you. We encourage you to view your opt out options in Revcontent's Privacy Policy
Want your content to appear on sites like this?
Increase Your Engagement Now!
Want to report this publisher's content as misinformation?
Submit a Report
Got it, thanks!

Want to leave a comment? 
Create an Account Or sign in to your account 
You're signed in! Thanks for joining the community!
Now go forth and comment!
Your account has been deactivated.
Please e-mail feedback@boston.com for more information. 
Your new password was successfully created. Please log in below. 
Please check your inbox.
A reset password link has been sent to your e-mail address.
Didn't get the e-mail? 
Thanks for registering! Please check your inbox.
We sent your e-mail a link to confirm your account. The confirmation e-mail may take a few minutes to arrive.
Didn't get the e-mail? 
Top of Form
Sign up to get the latest headlines in your inbox. Show password I agree to the Terms of Service * 
Read Boston.com's Privacy Policy
Bottom of Form
Your password is incorrect. Please try again.
Top of Form
Forgot your password? 
Bottom of Form
Your account has not been verified. Please enter your e-mail address below.
Check your inbox for a link to confirm your account.
Top of Form
Bottom of Form
Enter your e-mail address below.
We'll send you an e-mail with a link to reset your password on Boston.com.
Top of Form
Bottom of Form
Be civil. Be kind.
Read our full community guidelines. 
MBTA General Manager Steve Poftak waited by the entrance of Union Square Station for the first run on the Green Line extension from Union Square around 4:50am on Monday. David L Ryan/Globe Staff 
Most Popular 

Visit Police find body of missing 49-year-old Burlington woman 

Visit More than 300K have won on the $50 scratch ticket Ñ but no top prizes yet 

Visit She thought anxiety and drinking made her ill. The truth was scarier. 

Visit Jayson Tatum officially shows off his first signature shoe, the Jordan Tatum 1 

Visit The best movies on Netflix right now (February 2023) 

In Related News 

Adieu, Sealy McSwampSeal! Swampscott seal leaves beach as Boston.com readers suggest names 
* 
* Local 
Q&A: The MBTA's Katie Choe on workforce challenges, trust in the T, and what's happening with the Red Line 
* 
Real Estate 
Where would your favorite TV characters live in Greater Boston? 
* Follow Boston.com on Instagram (Opens in a New Tab) 
* Follow Boston.com on Twitter (Opens in a New Tab) 
* Like Boston.com on Facebook (Opens in a New Tab) 
©2023 Boston Globe Media Partners, LLC
Top of Form
Sign up for our daily newsletter 
Submit your email Enter your email address 
Subscribe 
Bottom of Form
* Do not sell my data
* Privacy Policy
* GAMBLING DISCLAIMER
* ADVERTISE
* Terms of Service
* Member Agreement
* CONTACT US
* CAREERS
Close Modal 
Boston.com Newsletter Signup Boston.com Logo 
Stay up to date with everything Boston. Receive the latest news and breaking updates, straight from our newsroom to your inbox. 
Top of Form
Enter your email address 
Submit your email Enter your email address 
Subscribe 
Bottom of Form
No thanks - Closes Modal window 
Manage Preferences 
Notifications

Privacy Preference Center
When you visit any website, it may store or retrieve information on your browser, mostly in the form of cookies. This information might be about you, your preferences or your device and is mostly used to make the site work as you expect it to. The information does not usually directly identify you, but it can give you a more personalized web experience. Because we respect your right to privacy, you can choose not to allow some types of cookies. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings. However, blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience of the site and the services we are able to offer. 
More information
Allow All
Manage Consent Preferences
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Always Active
These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information.
Performance Cookies
Performance Cookies 
These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.
Functional Cookies
Functional Cookies 
These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages. If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly.
Targeting Cookies
Targeting Cookies 
These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.
Back
Clear
checkbox label label
Apply Cancel
Consent Leg.Interest
Switch Label label
Switch Label label
Switch Label label
Confirm My Choices

Some areas of this page may shift around if you resize the browser window. Be sure to check heading and document order.
